{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12480\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 The Running Man GDD - Matthew Mazza
\b0 \
\
\ul Overview and Gameplay:\ulnone \
I wanted to start fresh and build a flexible and efficient foundation that would help with future projects, so I wanted this first game to be simple but polished.  It\'92s going to be a side-scrolling runner where the player can tap to jump, hold to jump higher, and tap again for a boost or small double jump.  The goal is to simply collect as many coins as possible, try to get the 3 collectibles in the level, and avoid the enemies.  If the player completes the level they\'92ll be given a score out of 3 stars based on how many coins they collected in the level.  \
\
\ul Controls:\ulnone \
Tap once to jump, tap and hold to jump high, tap while airborne for a double jump.\
\
\ul Theme and Assets:\ulnone \
At the moment it\'92s a tossup between a blade runner/cyberpunk theme, or a casual horror vibe.  It all depends on what assets I can find.\
\
For art assets I\'92ll be using www.opengameart.org\
For audio I\'92ll be using www.freesound.org\
\
\ul Stretch Goals:\ulnone \

\i (I have updated this section based on what I did and did not manage to complete)
\i0 \
\
These are things I plan to implement if I end up having enough time to do so.\
\
- special collectibles 
\i (completed)
\i0 \
- star scoring system 
\i (completed)
\i0 \
- menu screen to view all levels/worlds 
\i (not completed)
\i0 \
- power ups 
\i (not completed)
\i0 \
- leaderboards/cloud saving
\i  (not completed)
\i0 \
- multiple lives 
\i (not completed)
\i0 \
\
\ul Challenges:\
\ulnone - If I get to the networking that\'92ll definitely be an issue as it\'92s never been my strong suit even in C++\
- I\'92m not sure how flexible the UIKit is, and I haven\'92t tried my hand at using the scene editor yet, on the previous assignments I did most of the work through code.\
- Most of what I plan to do is something I could do in a week or so in C++ or Java, I think the biggest obstacle is going to be Swift itself. Once I can get a better grasp on how the language works, the concepts and execution itself shouldn\'92t be an issue as it\'92s the same as working in any other language.\
\

\b \ul POST-GAME UPDATES\

\b0 \ulnone \
\ul Things to look for (for the rubric):\ulnone \
1. There are a few extension methods, SKNode is one of them (under its own file name in the folder Extensions)\
2. Enum for the game state, player state\
3. Structs, many but the file GameConstants has a whole bunch of them\
4. SKActions, there are many but the Player Animation methods have a bunch\
5. Protocols used for the HUD and others (check folder for protocols)\
6. Particles (check folder for different particles)\
7. I didn\'92t use UIKit as I found creating my own button in SpriteKit worked to my advantage and allowed me to implement things a lot quicker\
8. Collision detection - I\'92m using bit masks for layers, collision is on the player, collectibles, enemies, ground, etc.\
9. Everything else (eg polymorphism, abstraction, delegates) is scattered throughout the classes and should be evident on a quick skim\ul \
\ulc0 \
Problems I ran into:\
\ulnone - it took me a while to understand bit shifting for collision masking, I understood it in theory but actually writing it out instead of just marking which layers you do and don\'92t want to cast for just threw me for a loop.\
- SKActions started off as being a pain and ended up making my life way easier than I thought they would. After looking into all the things they can do I was surprised how easy they make it to do small animations and just generally \'93pretty up\'94 the game (eg simple fade outs)\
- One thing I found annoying is that the animations added in the scene editor don\'92t play by default. Swift for some reason starts with the map paused - everything animates and works normally 
\i except 
\i0 the animations that you\'92ve added using the scene editor. Once I found that out and unpaused the map it worked fine, but it was still weird.\
- The popups and scoring system took me hours and I needed tutorials to help me with a lot of it. It ended up being simpler than I\'92d originally thought, and was mostly a lot of tediousness as opposed to complexity.\ul \
\
Known bugs:\
\ulnone - There\'92s a weird one where the buttons of the fail/win popups aren\'92t showing the correct images. I\'92ve obviously mixed up a name or index somewhere.}
